# Observations On Data Trends

Hopefully the visualizations show that not all days, weeks, incidents, hours,
etc are created equal. For instance, the culmination in data points to a
Saturday in September between 4 - 5PM being most likely time for an incident to
be reported. Almost unbelievably, is that by drilling down into specific types
of incidents, it is revealed that none of them have this exact trend and
detract in some manner. Below are a few observations on the different types of
incidents.

Minors in possession of alcohol (hereafter referred to as MIPs) has to be the
favorite visualization because it is so telling. Contrary to most other
incidents, MIPs occur almost exclusively between Friday and Sunday and between
the hours of 11PM and 5AM. No other incident has such an extreme bias. Also,
Welcome Week, the week where students return to Ann Arbor for the fall
semester, is by far and away responsible for the most MIPs reported. One can
hypothesize that warm weather, no classes, and socialable nature of the week
may induce students into bold behaviors. Other weeks popular with MIP incidents
are Halloween and the week before Thanksgiving, which isn't hard to believe. A
close companion to MIPs are ambulance requests, which also is concentrated
around Welcome Week and Saturdays, but MIPs and ambulance requests differ in
hours reported with ambulance requests predominantly being reported during
business hours. The similarities, in part, can be explained by minors
succumbing to alcohol poisoning.

Larceny from buildings, which is an incident that invovles reports of stolen
laptops, wallets, coats, is a type of incident that is most likely to occurr
during business hours Monday through Friday while Winter and Fall semesters are
in session. Explanation for this could be that during these times, the most
people are on campus and in general a higher concentration of people leads to a
higher concentration of thefts.

Remarkably, there are incidents that are not effected by the flux of students.
These include: property damange (accidental), assist other agency, and to some
extent, traffic accident (off roadway). The only immediate explanation is that
other agencies aren't effected by the flux of students and so DPS has a
constant flow of activity from other agencies. Intuitive explanations for the
other two types of incidents remain elusive.

# Notes on Implementation

The close observer will be quick to point out the fact that not every year has
the same number of days/weeks, and that days don't have a set week that they
occur in. The point of these graphics isn't to be technically rigorous, but
rather give general trends. The other option would be to display all data
across all years, but collapsing all the data into a single year more easily
gives rise to trend detection.
